---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 16:40
difficulty: Intermediate or Advanced
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-62/
presenters: Shawn Inman
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Mighty Model Managers
track: ''
---

# Mighty Model Managers

Model Managers are an amazing part of the Django Framework. When put to use,
they can bring enhanced readability, encapsulation of logic, increased
security, and performance. But they're often overlooked - even by those with
years of experience. Let's fix that. We'll go through examples that
demonstrate how easy Model Managers are to integrate into a project and why
they're so important.

  * Quick info about me and why I'm presenting on this topic.
  * Dispel the idea that _anyone_ isn't using MM. They're built in, even if people don't know it
  * Review what is provided for you out of the box
  * Explain the abstraction from the ORM
  * Introduce a sample project (perhaps the sample project from the Django docs) that we'll work through improving using MMs
  * Basic setup
  * QuerySet.as_manager() (more for free!)

Readability is an easy win from using Model Managers and is a good first step
toward understanding their benefits.

  * Demonstrate chaning (_composability_) of Model Manager methods to improve readability
  * DRY! - using Model Manager methods simplifies the repetition of writing the same queries across the codebase

### Encapsulation of logic (5m)

Encapsulation is a major difference-maker for apps with significant business
logic.

  * Provide a consistent interface, even when the app evolves over time
  * Effortlessly enable soft-deletes, etc.
  * **Preventing data leakage**: protect future-you from present-you! (show an example of how much easier it is to use a Model Manager method than remembering to exclude records based on a status, etc)

### Cacheability (3m)

  * "Russian Doll" caching and applying the idea to queries
  * Composeability of model manager methods allows you to selectively cache the results from Model Manager methods, particularly if non-query operations are going on there.

### Q/A (5m)