---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-20 13:30
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-9/
presenters: Erik Romijn
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Healthy Minds in a Healthy Community
track: ''
---

# Healthy Minds in a Healthy Community

Open source communities attract passionate, idealistic people, but this can
also make us vulnerable to elevated stress, burnout and conflicts, more so in
people already struggling with mental illness. Here, our communities can make
a huge difference. This talk will take a look at open-source and well-being,
show various things that the Django community already does and two recent new
initiatives.

Open source communities attract and boast passionate, idealistic people, and
many of us invest copious amounts of time and effort to contribute to our
projects and support our communities. This underlying emotional attachment can
make us more vulnerable to elevated stress, burnout and conflicts. And then
there are those of us who also manage mental illness.

More often than not, we suffer these struggles in silence, feeling (and
fearing) that we're alone in our trouble. Here, our communities can make a
huge difference, by building a positive and safe environment where we can
blossom and support ourselves and our peers, and feel included.

The community around Django is already very mindful towards inclusivity, and
keeping an eye on the well-being of community members. We have recently
launched several new projects to further promote the well-being of our
community members.

This talk will take a look at open-source communities through the eyes of
various mental well-being issues and struggles, and discuss and report on the
progress our new initiatives. Hopefully, this will help foster healthy minds
in a healthy environment.