---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 14:20
difficulty: Novice
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-36/
presenters: Annalee Flower Horne
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: An Intro To Web Accessibility In Django
track: ''
---

# An Intro To Web Accessibility In Django

Many developers want to build accessible applications, but don't know where to
start. This talk will cover common accessibility issues and how to address
them, then demonstrate how to do an accessibility audit using free tools
available online. The audience will learn about how disabled users interact
with web apps, how to build more accessible sites, and W3C's accessibility
guidelines.

Like most developers, I've always known that building accessible web apps is
the right thing to do, but I wasn't sure how to do it. I tried my best to add
image descriptions and audio transcripts and figured that was good enough.
Then I started work on a Django 1.8 project for an agency that has a low-
vision website administrator. When we sat her down in front of the app's admin
interface for the first time, she had a lot of trouble using it. The contrast
was way too low, and control features like sort by column weren't properly
labeled. After watching her navigate the admin interface and learning more
about how disabled users navigate the web, I customized our app's admin
interface to improve accessibility. I've since gotten training in web
accessibility, and want to share some of what I've learned so we can all build
more accessible apps.

## Common Accessibility Issues

We'll cover the most common barriers to access and the tools and
accommodations people rely on to get around them.

### Blindness and low-vision

Blindness is what most people think of first when they're thinking of web
accessibility, but there are a lot of myths and common mistakes around making
sites accessible to blind and low-vision users. We'll talk about screen-
readers, screen magnification, color contrast, and best practices for links
and image captions.

### Colorblindness

We'll cover resources that can help developers see how their site will look to
folks with various kinds of colorblindness, and best practices around using
color to distinguish content.

### Deafness and hearing difficulties

Applications that require the ability to hear and process sound are
inaccessible to folks with hearing difficulties, as well as anyone who's
forgotten their headphones. We'll talk about best practices around audio and
captions.

### Neurological Issues

Executive function disorders like ADHD, reading difficulties like dyslexia,
and neurological conditions such as epilepsy can affect how people navigate
the web. We'll talk about best practices around content and design to make
sure websites are safe and accessible for neurodiverse users.

### Dexterity issues

Some folks navigate the web without two nimble hands. This category includes
amputees, folks with bone or joint issues, and anyone holding a baby or a
public transit railing. We'll touch on on-screen keyboards and keyboard
navigation.

## Auditing for Accessibility

We'll wrap up with an accessibility audit of the django admin interface,
putting what we've covered above into practice. We'll use
http://wave.webaim.org/ and step through how to fix the issues it flags.