---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 13:30
difficulty: Novice
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-49/
presenters: Rudy Mutter
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Django Supporting Virtual Reality Game Development
track: ''
---

# Django Supporting Virtual Reality Game Development

Recently we launched Tiny Eye, a hidden object virtual reality game for Google
Cardboard on iOS and Android. This was our first foray into virtual reality
development as well as using Unity. We of course wanted to bring our best
friend Django into the mix to power our backend and there were a lot of
lessons learned along the way to get them to play nice together.

Virtual reality in 2016 is moving closer to mainstream, especially with game
development due to releases from multiple companies (Oculus Rift, Playstation
VR, and HTC Vive). We decided to build an entertaining, accessible virtual
reality game via Google Cardboard for iOS and Android based on a classic
childhood game to find hidden objects in elaborate scenes.

### Communication Issues

The tools and community around virtual reality development are still fairly
new and come with a lot of rough edges. We decided to use Unity and C# to
power our game to release on both iOS and Android. It only made sense to rely
on Django, a technology we know well, for the backend of our game to store
information about levels, add ons, etc. Having Unity communicate with a
RESTful API via JSON, however, is not something that is straightforward and
out of the box.

### The Talk

From this talk you'll get working code samples that show you how to have Unity
and Django communicating with each other. We'll cover some different libraries
that we tried out and some special considerations for mobile platforms (iOS
and Android) when selecting libraries to use with your Unity application. You
should walk away with an understanding of how to use Django to create a full
stack Unity game and learn some interesting tidbits about the state of current
virtual reality development.