---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 14:50
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-21/
presenters: Aisha Bello
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: 'The impact of women learning to code in developing countries: benefits and
  challenges.'
track: ''
---

# The impact of women learning to code in developing countries: benefits and
challenges.

Admist all of the challenges in developing countries there is a need to not
only solve problems, but to change the general narrative using technology.
Much of these can be achieved using the power and freedom opensource provides.
There is a need to increase the nos of people who can solve their immediate
problems using technology. We aim to bring to light how DjangoGirls in Africa
make it possible

In a continent where more than 75% of the world's poorest countries are
located all with common problems of Economic hardship, electricity issues,
lack of water e.t.c and there is a global need to change the narrative not
just as individual countries but as a continent. Our leaders try as it may
have failed us, nothing seems to be working. The next point of action is to
use Technology in whatever form to change our narrative, change our story and
enhance our lives.

What better way to go than to go the open source route. Already many
initiatives have sprung up recently with PyCon Namibia and DjangoGirls
spreading through different African countries. In this talk we highlight how
Python education has gradually changed the lives of many women and hope to
make suggestions on how such initiatives hope to bridge the technology gender
gap in Africa and ultimately how it is being used to change our narrative.

Anywhere in the world, achieving development means going through serious
technological changes and innovation. That implies having qualified people to
drive those changes. These qualified people exists in most of the developing
countries but it's not enough. It is indeed a sheer case of demand outweighing
supply. It is no secret that in Africa there are so many untapped resources
with a whooping 60% of the entire population between the ages of 15-25. At
this point there is so much potential laying fallow.

Globally there is a talent gap in technology with not enough people with the
right skill set to fill in the role with Africa with no exemption.
Furthermore, by looking closely, it's easily noticeable that the majority of
technological workforce is the men. There is therefore a considerable
opportunity: WOMEN. Unfortunately, because of different reasons especially in
Africa where women rights are not given due consideration, and due to unfair
treatments, very few women are involved in technology. By consciously making
extra efforts to enlighten and bring in more women, we can nearly double the
amount of qualified people in technology, create more innovations and
progress. This is in fact a no brainer solution

In this talk we would talk about how workshops like Django Girls are helping
increase the number of skilled people in technology and also stress the need
for to create a lot more similar events and make them more "3rd world
friendly" by tackling challenges such as lack of electricity, internet, proper
equipment etc. In this talk we would curate information from all DjangoGirls
organizers in different African countries to highlight the general challenges
faced in organizing python workshops and events in various countries in Africa
and also profer solutions and suggestions in tackling these issues To conclude
we leave with this quote from Karen Sparck Jones, Professor of Computers and
Information at Cambridge Computer Laboratory "I think it's very important to
get more women into computing. My slogan is: Computing is too important to be
left to men."