---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 15:50
difficulty: Novice
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-8/
presenters: Tracy Osborn
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Design for Non-Designers
track: ''
---

# Design for Non-Designers

Designing, when you are a programmer, can be super intimidating. This talk
will highlight the best ways to improve your design and UX skills so you can
create an interfaces that are usable and at least semi-attractive without
hiring a designer -- guaranteed no designer-y jargon.

Not everyone can hire a professional designer for their websites and web apps,
but we all still want our interfaces to be easy to use and attractive.
However, if you want to learn a bit of design, design books jump straight into
concepts like "the golden ratio" and teach proper typographic terms which, to
be frank, aren't needed if you're just looking to improve your website's look
and feel.

This talk will cover the top quick ways to improve your website, covering both
user experience as well as visual design. Quick hits, easy to understand and
utilize principles that anyone can use to improve their design skills. Perhaps
you too can become the next designer+developer unicorn!

Outline _ Intro (5%): * Who am I? * Why is good design important? _ Overview
of design terms (only the basics) (20%): * Definitions and overview of UI, UX,
and visual design. * Overview of conversion, goals, and click-through rates. *
What's most important when you're designing? _ Easy-to-understand design
principles (40%): * Clutter is our #1 enemy. How a grid, fonts, and color can
affect how cluttered our design looks. * Faces and photos, and other shortcuts
we can use to make beautiful designs _ Step-by-step of walkthrough of creating
a website design (20%): * Collecting ideas. * Sketching your ideas
efficiently. * Tools to mock up your ideas. * Resources to help you build your
idea. _ How improve your design eye and become a better designer (10%). _
Resources to learn more (5%).

Attendees should have the know-how to quickly improve the design of their
websites immediately as well as knowledge of resources to improve their design
eye.