---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 14:50
difficulty: Novice
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-15/
presenters: Eleanor Stribling
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Sign Me Up - Choosing & using a registration package for your Django project
track: ''
---

# Sign Me Up - Choosing & using a registration package for your Django project

Ever needed to add registration features to your web app but weren't sure
where to start? This talk will walk novice developers through some of the
resources available for selecting registration packages and illustrate, with
code from a real project, some common steps and gotchas in django-
registration-redux.

Registration steps to use a web app, as well as login and password reset
functionality is a common requirement, but where do you begin implementing
this in Django? Walking through an actual case study with code examples,
novice programmers will learn some tips and tricks for finding and
implementing the right framework.

### Picking the right solution for your project

There are quite a few registration packages available for Django that simplify
implementation to various degrees, but how do you choose one? Sites like this
one (<https://www.djangopackages.com/grids/g/registration/>) are great
resources, but can be overwhelming the first time. This tutorial will walk
through some selection criteria, step by step, to help developers decide which
frameworks meet the requirements of the project, and where some frameworks
might be better than others to accomplish certain objectives.

#### Working with django-registration-redux

Last year, I embarked on refactoring a command line program I'd originally
written for a class project by moving to an object oriented design and using
the Django web framework. This part of the talk walks through an actual
project using this package, including steps for implementation in the actual
code for the case study project, demystifying the interaction among Django's
many files and directories to "wire everything up", and with a quick
walkthough of template customization and testing your app to make sure the
feature works.

Note: The project I'll use for the case study can be viewed here:
[http://www.valeez.com](http://www.valeez.com/)

#### Outline

##### Introduction (5 mins)

  * Who am I?
  * Case study: Valeez

##### Picking the right solution for your project (7 mins)

  * Evaluating options against project requirements (overview)
  * Popular options, strengths and weaknesses
  * Tips for making a selection
  * Why I chose django-registration-redux

##### Working with django-registration-redux (15 mins)

  * Overview of how the package works with Django's file structure
  * Walkthrough of how to install the package in your app
  * Common pitfalls (focus on import order, URLs files)
  * Wiring up your app and checking it works

##### Q and A (3 mins)