---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 11:30
difficulty: Intermediate or Advanced
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-16/
presenters: Anna Schneider
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: 'Django for IoT: From hackathon to production'
track: ''
---

# Django for IoT: From hackathon to production

Want to control your wifi-connected, API-enabled stuff? Good news--Django can
be just as good at Internet of Things as it is at blogs and polls. This talk
will kickstart your IoT fun by showing a case study of a quick-and-dirty app,
and a cleaner version using Celery.

It's Friday night of hackathon weekend. The latest snazzy Internet-connected
thingy is sitting on the table next to your beverage of choice, the device's
API docs are open in a browser tab, and your fingers are itching to write some
Django. What's the fastest way to get started? And next month when you come
back to it, what will you want to upgrade?

This talk will walk through a common IoT use case, sending HTTP requests to
turn on and off a device in response to some external data. I do this all the
time at WattTime and I'll share some of the tricks I've picked up over the
last couple years.

We'll focus on two big differences from your typical blog or polls app: the
data model abstractions that fit the problem, and the need to run frequent
periodic tasks to hit the device's API. I'll share a data model that's worked
well for me across a bunch of IoT apps. And I'll show you two ways to run
those periodic background tasks in Django: a hackathon-friendly version, and a
production-friendly version using Celery. You'll walk away with a complete
demo template that you can use in your own projects!