---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 11:30
difficulty: Intermediate or Advanced
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-17/
presenters: Ed Rivas
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: 'Spicing up Django: An introduction to Mezzanine CMS'
track: ''
---

# Spicing up Django: An introduction to Mezzanine CMS

In this talk we will explore the features baked into Mezzanine CMS, a popular
content-management solution built on Django. We will also take a regular
Django app and convert it to a fully-integrated Mezzanine app, learning about
the goodies and shortcuts that it provides for developers. An intermediate
level of Django is required, and an interest in building content-oriented
sites.

Mezzanine CMS is a popular content-management solution for Django. With a rich
set of built-in features and following Django's batteries-included approach,
it can supercharge your new or existing apps for content-oriented sites.

In this talk we will explore the features that Mezzanine provides by default,
and how they take care of many common content-management tasks (page creation
and editing, maintaining a blog, WYSIWYG editors, SEO, and more).

We will also take an existing Django app and convert it into a fully
integrated Mezzanine application. You'll be surprised at how much of the work
has been done for you, and how your existing Django skills will let you hit
the ground running when working with Mezzanine.

Outline:

  1. Mezzanine tour
  2. Basic integration of custom models
  3. Advanced integration of custom models
  4. Working with templates
  5. Review
  6. Questions (if time permits)