---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-20 11:30
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-18/
presenters: Timothy Allen
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: 'It Is Darkest Before Dawn: Alcoholism and Addiction in Tech (CW) (TW)'
track: ''
---

# It Is Darkest Before Dawn: Alcoholism and Addiction in Tech (CW) (TW)

Technology professionals have been in high demand for several decades. This
demand for talent has caused a culture to emerge that often turns a blind eye
to those who may be struggling with alcoholism and addiction.

Technology professionals have been in high demand for several decades, and
this demand for talent has caused a culture to emerge that often turns a blind
eye to those who may be struggling with alcoholism and addiction. We have to
come together to avoid this "petri dish" continuing to exist, by watching out
for ourselves, and one another. The CDC estimates that ten percent of
Americans suffer from the disease of addiction, and only nine percent of
addicts ever receive treatment. This "petri dish" of technology culture makes
it even harder for those of us with careers in the field.

Recovery can be a wonderful journey for those of us who suffer from the
disease, and I hope by sharing some of my journey, people will take a step
back and consider what we can do to improve the culture for everyone.

Content warnings: this will be frank discussion that may involve colorful
language, and topics including drug and alcohol abuse, death from addiction
and sexual abuse.