---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 15:50
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-28/
presenters: Amanda Clark
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: 'The Fraud Police are Coming: Work, Leadership, and Imposter Syndrome'
track: ''
---

# The Fraud Police are Coming: Work, Leadership, and Imposter Syndrome

Have you ever felt like you're not as good at your job as you should be, or
that you should know more than you do? Have you had the thought that everyone
is about to figure out you have no idea what you're doing? You might be
afflicted with imposter syndrome. Even if you're not, you're spending time
with people who are - it's been estimated that as many as 70% of people
experience it.

What is imposter syndrome?

It's a failure to internalize your accomplishments. It's the nagging feeling
you don't know enough, haven't done enough, don't have enough experience to do
your job, land a new account, publish a new paper. It's feeling like a fraud
and that you're about to be found out. The term was coined in a study by
Pauline Rose Clance &amp; Suzanne Imes in 1978 having to do with the habits
and behaviors of high-achieving women, but it's recently become a hot topic in
tech and career conversations - with good reason.

Who does it affect?

Originally a phenomenon studied among women in academic fields, studies (and
anecdotal evidence) have shown it affects just about everyone. Sheryl
Sandberg, Meryl Streep, and Maya Angelou have all commented about their own
experiences with imposter syndrome. After we've asked, so have most of our
friends and colleagues. We combine research with personal experience to
provide the Big Six signs you might have imposter syndrome, so you can
recognize the symptoms in yourself.

How is it affecting me?

Imposter syndrome can make us feel like we need to be super-people, adding and
adding to our goals each day, with no end in sight. It means we might be less
likely to raise our hands for new projects because we don't think we know
enough. It might keep us from speaking up in meetings, seeking promotions, or
talking at conferences. It can bring feelings of self-doubt, anxiety, fear,
alienation, isolation, shame or despair. It can be paralyzing to a person's
career.

Does it get better?

Thanks to the Dunning-Kruger effect, the more you learn, the more you realize
how much you don't know. When combined with the imposter syndrome associated
with increasing achievements over time, it usually gets worse.

But...there's good news.

Through identifying specific components of imposter syndrome, you can sort out
what's a real area for improvement and what's mostly anxiety. Dealing with
imposter syndrome is often part of the price of doing new, exciting things. We
can help you figure out to cope. This talk will also help you recognize
imposter syndrome in friends, colleagues, and employees, and we'll help you
think about how to best support them. (Hint: responding with compliments does
more harm than good.) By the end of our talk, you'll to learn how you can
leverage the feelings of imposter syndrome to become a better leader,
colleague and human.