---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 16:40
difficulty: Intermediate or Advanced
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-45/
presenters: Brian Rosner
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Building JSON APIs with Django / Pinax
track: ''
---

# Building JSON APIs with Django / Pinax

The requirements of web apps we build today has changed drastically. The web
browser (and many other front ends) are becoming more promiement in our
development. How do we design a backend that can cope with this drastic shift
in thinking and tooling.

Javascript is a language we simply cannot ignore. It isn't just Javascript
too. Objective-C, Swift and Java are all languages we are finding we need to
work with to meet client expectations about a web app.

The role Django (and Python) plays in this new world is becoming a bit more
limited. There are plenty of great efforts to get Python running everywhere,
but this talk isn't about any of that. This talk is about building the API all
of these frontends need to communicate with to drive persistent and business
logic.

pinax-api was originally built to serve the needs of a particular client at
Eldarion, but later pulled out as its own app. It provides a simple and modern
interface to building an API with Django. At its core, pinax-api leverages the
JSON:API spec that was built out of Ember.

The talk will cover:

  * what is JSON:API
  * JSON:API in pinax-api
  * API primitives provided by pinax-pai
  * how pinax-api leverages Django to its fullest
  * automatic documentation generation using API Blueprint
  * why not Django REST Framework?