---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-20 16:40
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-51/
presenters: Kurt Wall
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Atomic Wagtail
track: ''
---

# Atomic Wagtail

Wagtail is another great CMS for Django that brings a fresh solution to
content management. Brad Frost's atomic design principles are taking the way
we design the web by storm. I'll explain what Wagtail is, how you can use it
with atomic design principles, and some hurdles you might run into along the
way with suggestions on how to help.

Wagtail is a Django-based CMS made by developers that were just sick of the
current solutions out there for reasons from usability to extensibility. It
provides a sleek and intuitive editing experience, while keeping its design
open and flexible for creating custom frameworks. I'll first explain what
Wagtail is, how we can use it, what features make it great, and what makes it
not so great.

## Atomic Design

Brad Frost coined this term in reference to his taxonomical design model. The
model breaks down design layouts from the simplest element to the more complex
layouts. I'll briefly go over what this model is.

Atomic design lends well to the strengths and some features of Wagtail. I'll
tell you how you can use Atomic design in harmony with Wagtail, with tips and
pitfalls you might encounter along the way.

## Lessons Learned

Any new approach to something is going to be both fun and frustrating. I'll
list some of the most frustrating aspects of Wagtail, trickled with some
advice.