---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-18 11:00
difficulty: Novice
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-32/
presenters: Ashwini Oruganti
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Dispelling the 'Genius Programmer' Myth Through Code Review
track: ''
---

# Dispelling the 'Genius Programmer' Myth Through Code Review

We often hear people lament how hard it is to get a patch accepted to large
Python open source libraries. Through a series of (often amusing) real-life
anecdotes from Twisted, RPython, Cryptography, and examples from many other
Python libraries, come learn about code reviews, getting your patches
accepted, and tools/processes to encourage quality contributions.

Open source libraries have high quality standards. And understandably so,
since the more important and widely used a project becomes, the more essential
it is to maintain it. But this at times affects one of the fundamental
advantages of open source software - contributions. Strict quality
requirements and harsh code reviews make the process of contributing patches
discouraging, disappointing, and even stressful.

In this talk, I will discuss tools and processes used by major Python
libraries to maintain a high level of code quality and a robust code review
culture. I will work through a list of people's code review fears with
personal anecdotes, and how to deal with them and be more receptive to
critical feedback. Through real examples taken from popular open source Python
libraries, I will try to show what makes a good code review, what makes a bad
code review, and what minor changes can turn the latter into the former.