---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 17:10
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-35/
presenters: Baptiste Mispelon
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Stress Testing your Code of Conduct in Production
track: ''
---

# Stress Testing your Code of Conduct in Production

What exactly is a Code of Conduct? This topic can seem scary or even taboo but
it shouldn't be so. We want to share our experience in building welcoming
communities and events based on trust, responsibility and empathy. By
answering common questions and making our processes more transparent, we want
to show you that you don't need to be scared of codes of conducts.

The Django and Python communities have made codes of conducts a standard
feature for many years now. But what exactly is a code of conduct? How does it
work in practice? Why do we need them? What you should report? What are the
consequences of having one?

We (Ola &amp; Baptiste) have been working as CoC points of contacts at many
conferences for the past few years: EuroPython 2014, DjangoCon Europe (2015
and 2016), and Django Under the Hood (2014, 2015). This has given us a unique
insight into the inner workings and practical implications of codes of
conducts and we want to share it with the Django community.

The talk will start with a brief history of codes of conducts. From then,
we'll go over some of the challenges and pitfalls of implementing a CoC in our
communities or events. After that, we'll show how CoC work in practice and
answer some common questions about them. We will then briefly talk about how
lessons learnt from CoC world can be applied successfully in your daily job to
grow supportive and strong teams. Finally, we'll finish off by showing the new
standardized CoC processes that we've been working on.

With this talk, we want to continue the process we've started of bringing CoC
to the front of the stage, making them more transparent and less taboo. We
believe that CoC are an essential part of any community and we'd like to share
our vision for how we think ours should work.