---
accepted: true
category: talk
date: 2016-07-19 15:50
difficulty: Not Applicable
layout: session-details
permalink: /talks/talk-26/
presenters: Radina Matic
published: true
room: Room 1
summary: ''
title: Walking Down the A11y Road - Lessons Learnt from Working on Accessibility of
  a Django Project
track: ''
---

# Walking Down the A11y Road - Lessons Learnt from Working on Accessibility of
a Django Project

Despite being a legal requirement and having sound business logic,
accessibility is often an afterthought for no good reason. Delivering
universal design need not be a burden even in the small teams and projects.
This is story of how implementing small steps towards making a product more
accessible, raises the awareness and preparedness of the whole team for the
future development challenges.

_(~ 5 minutes)_



     - Who we are and how did we meet?


#### Why do we care?

_(~ 10 minutes)_



     - Universal Design as a core value - Who benefits? - Why making inclusive products makes business sense? - What liabilities you incur for not making inclusive products?


#### What can you do with an already rounded product?

_(~ 10 minutes)_

##### Baby-steps with KA Lite

  1. Easy things you can check for and correct fast (titles, headings, `aria` landmarks, visible focus, `alt`text for images, meaningful labels for EVERYTHING...)

  2. Bit more tinkering required (menus and navigation, complex forms, accessible color schemes...)

  3. Accessible Multimedia &amp; Documents (offer ALTERNATIVES!)

#### What should you do right from the start of a new project?

_(~ 10 minutes)_

##### Kolibri flies for everybody



     - Include a11y requirements into the Usability Style Guide - Take a11y into account when choosing the libraries and frameworks - Follow the standard web semantic - Make accessible web components available from the beginning - Start including a11y automated tests as soon as possible


#### Accessibility in everyday dev team life

_(~ 10 minutes)_



     - A11y Pills & lots of passion - Make accessibility a *SHARED* responsibility - Start a Tools Repository (Rome wasn't built in a day) - Don't rely exclusively on checklists and automated testing (Involve the USERS!) - No such thing as 100% accessible