---
author: Heather Luna
category: Sponsorship
date: 2017-08-02 00:00:01
layout: post
image: /static/img/blog/thankyoujbs.png
title: "JBS - Who Are We and What Do We Do?"
---

Founded in 1999, JBS is a consultancy of highly skilled developers
who for the past 18 years have focused solely on the development of
custom software systems for our customers. Some of our notable
customers include:

- Billboard
- Sandisk
- Musicians Friend
- Total Wine
- Many other start-ups and Fortune 500 companies worldwide.

Today we have 50 employees, 45 of which who are technical consultants 
(PM’s, Architects, Senior Developers, BI Specialists and UI design).  
JBS is based in Chadds Ford, PA and we work with our customers in a
distributed environment supported by a strong project and technical
management team and a team of very senior experienced developers.  

We’ve been working with Django and its associated ecosystem for almost
a decade and in the ensuing years have acquired a tremendous amount of
in-house expertise on designing, building and architecting Django
applications of all shapes and sizes. We’ve also built Django
based solutions in a variety of industries such as retail, ecommerce, 
finance, government, fashion and the entertainment industry. 
Some notable projects have been:

- Building an ecommerce platform from the ground up with Django as the
foundation for New York-based fashion start up Moda Operandi. 
Since going live in 2012, they have grown to be one of the world’s
leading online experience for Haute Couture.

- Backstage.com is the largest online casting platform in the world, 
and also provides a suite of online tools to help casting professionals
find their perfect performers. In addition, Backstage.com provides the
largest amount of editorial content for actors and other entertainment
industry professionals online. The entire platform is Django powered.

- Using Django to help deliver analytics and data science solutions for
PeerIQ, a financial start up focusing on using predictive analytics and
machine learning in the peer-to-peer loan industry.

- Wineaccess.com – Wine Access provides their members expertly curated
wine selections and recommendations. Their staff of in-house expertise
and knowledge of the wine industry has allowed them to be one of the
most highly regarded destinations for all things wine. 

For more information, please visit our 
[website](http://www.jbssolutions.com/) .






