---
author: Heather Luna
category: Sponsorship
date: 2017-08-02 00:00:01
layout: post
image: /static/img/blog/thankyoutito.png
title: "The Case for Affordable Event Tickets"
---

Yes, yes, yes. “Affordable” is relative, but what we’re talking about
here is making steps to help people from relatively diverse 
backgrounds attend events.

**For Diverse Speakers and Attendees**

Thankfully, there’s a fresh shift towards making events more inclusive. 
A lot of organizers are acknowledging that they have to do something
to get a more diverse group of people involved in their events. 
Event attendees are also tired of the same old speakers in rotation. 

So, what does it take to enable that?

Imagine you still use an iPod. Or maybe you don’t even have to imagine. 
But do imagine that there’s only one artist on it and they only released
one album. It’s the only option you have to listen to on your commute
to work every day, and you spend a lot of your professional life on
the train. 

The same thing happens when there’s a homogenous batch of able-bodied,
cis, white, male, middle-to-upper-class people that gets recycled among
the event community; it gets stale.

You won’t learn any new lyrics listening to the same songs all the time.

When it’s encouraged that organizers seek diverse speakers and
attendees, those attendees are inevitably going to get involved in
different conversations because of the different experiences available
to interact about.

So, how to attract people of different ethnicities, abilities and
backgrounds to events?

Given where you’re reading this, you should take a nod from
DjangoCon US' pricing structure. They use different
[bands of pricing](https://2017.djangocon.us/tickets/) for tickets to
encourage diverse attendees to come to their event.

**For Students and Unemployed**

The next generation and some of the current generation in the tech
space have obstacles in their way when it comes to benefiting from what
people in more privileged positions can afford to learn from events
like DjangoCon US. 

Given their circumstances, unemployed people and those studying
generally don’t have access to the funds needed to pay for full-price
tickets to events. But a lack of money doesn’t imply a lack of
competence. 

In the case of students, they spend their days knee-deep in innovative
ideas in their chosen fields and are active in finding original
approaches to solving the problems faced by those in the careers
they’ll inevitably end up in.

When it comes to the unemployed, obstacles such as the inability to
work due to disability, the end of specialist projects and the nature
of the gig economy are all reasons why highly competent, potential
event-goers can’t foot the bill. But that doesn’t make them in anyway
less desirable to have around. Quite the contrary.

Tito has spent a whole month of their 
[blog space](http://blog.tito.io/) talking about how to secure
sponsorship for your event which can help to fund ticket discounts
and making way for more people to enjoy events. They’ve also made it
simple to purchase 
[different types of tickets](https://ti.to/docs/tickets). 


*Tito has been making [event software](https://ti.to/) to sell and
manage tickets for the past 5 years because they want to make that
process as easy as humanly possible. They’re small, self-funded and
located in Dublin, Ireland. You can track their
[progress](http://blog.tito.io/posts/topic/new-features)
and read their 
[experiences](http://blog.tito.io/posts/topic/announcements) here.* 