---
layout: session-details
title:  "An Introduction to Secure Web Development with Django (and Python!)"
permalink: /tutorials/tutorial-1/
date: 2016-07-17 9:00:00 -0500
category: tutorial
presenters: James Bennett
difficulty: N/A
accepted: true
published: true
sitemap: false
room: Classroom (F-45)
---
You can't afford to have security be an optional or "nice-to-have" feature in
your applications. Luckily, Django has your back: this workshop will introduce
you to thinking about security, cover some common (and some less-common)
security concerns, and walk you through, in detail, how Django and the broader
Django and Python ecosystems can help protect you and your users from them.

### Abstract

  1. How to talk about security (and how not to)

  2. Getting up again after you fall: a brief history of Django and security

  3. There's no such thing as "secure"; you're always making tradeoffs and trying to stay a step or two ahead

  4. Integrating thoughtful, informed security decisions as a necessary part of the development process

  5. What sorts of things are we worried about?

  6. Basic categories of security issues

    * Unauthorized data accesss

    * Arbitrary code execution (against you or your users)

    * Denial-of-service

  7. Rogues' gallery: a tour of the OWASP Top Ten list

    * Injection attacks

    * Authentication and session management

    * Cross-site scripting

    * Direct object references

    * Misconfiguration

    * Sensitive data exposure

    * Function-level access control

    * Cross-site request forgery

    * Components with known vulnerabilities

    * Unvalidated redirects and forwards

  8. What can we do about it?

    * The OWASP Top Ten, reprise: how to mitigate or avoid all ten in Django-based applications, including:

    * Best practices for use of the ORM

    * Approaches to authentication

    * Django's built-in XSS protection

    * Using Django's URL routing to avoid exposing object IDs

    * Using the system check framework to identify issues before you go live

    * How to safely store, or avoid storing, sensitive data

    * Locking down your views with Django's authentication and permission system

    * Using Django's anti-CSRF framework

    * How to stay on top of your dependencies so they don't let you down: requires.io, hashed requirements and other tools

    * Tools for avoiding and mitigating unsafe redirects in Django applications

  9. Intermediate issues

  10. The OWASP Top Ten is a good start, but...

  11. The expanded rogues' gallery:

    * SSL everywhere: using HTTP Strict Transport Security

    * Keeping unwanted hands out of the cookie jar

    * Don't get framed: how clickjacking works and how to stop it

    * This smells bad: how to give content-sniffing attacks a stuffy nose

    * How did that get there? Using Content Security Policy to help browsers help you

    * Further topics in cross-domain data access (how to lock down Flash and Silverlight)

  12. Security as a process

    * Developing a security policy for your code (or company)

    * Responsible handling and disclosure

    * Thoughtfully packaging and distributing your code

  13. Advanced topics

  14. A spotter's guide to common patterns for DoS vectors

  15. Cryptography and its discontents

    * Using Django's crypto utilities in moderation
  16. Reflections on trusting trust: how not to go overboard

  17. Conclusion + Q&amp;A

