---
layout: session-details
title:  "Demystifying the Django REST Framework"
date: 2016-07-17 13:30:00 -0500
permalink: /tutorials/tutorial-4/
category: tutorial
presenters: Haris Ibrahim K V
difficulty: Intermediate or Advanced
accepted: true
published: true
room: Classroom (F-45)
---
The tutorial covers the basics of Django REST Framework, building of RESTful
apis from DRF's perspective and a hands on approach all along while we learn
together.

### Abstract

This will be an intermediate tutorial on Django Rest Framework. For a first
time user, DRF presents a ton of magic. Things work, but you end up not
knowing or understanding what is happening behind the scenes. If you would
want to tweak something, you wouldn't know where to start or what to look at.

I've had quite a few frustrating moments trying to figure out what method
mapped to which action, and which ones to override when. The fact that DRF
does not impose the REST architecture confused me to a good extent as well.
Nested relationships was another beast which was hard to tame.

This tutorial will build an app - not a full fledged front end design but the
endpoints that are required, and will showcase implementing endpoints using
complete abstraction that DRF provides including Routers, ViewSets and builtin
Serializers as the first step.

The second step will break the ViewSets and implement them as normal class
based views, showing what happens behind the scenes. How the methods are
mapped, how it flows through from the moment a request hits one of the views.

The third step will involve writing the routers by hand, using normal views
and how to fine tune serializers to add your custom fields, etc.

We'll use DRF 3.x for the workshop. Detailed setup instructions will be sent
to you well before the workshop.

The rough plan is:

  * 0 - 20 minutes: Brushing up REST architecture and general ice breaker.

  * 20 - 50 minutes: Setting up a Django project and DRF installation.

  * 50 - 1h 20: Implementing the first endpoint, with all abstraction and goodness of DRF.

  * 1h 20 - 1h 40: Breaking down the ViewSet into simple APIViews and explaining the methods.

  * 1h 40 - 2h 00: Breaking it further down to manually writing the routers, normal views, etc.

  * 2h 00 - 2h 30: Implementation of a nested relationship.

  * 2h 30 - 3h 00: General discussion, pitfalls and do's as well as dont's.

